# Planify
***
### What and Why?
As students, it can be difficult to find the motivation to stay organized and keep track of  important tasks as the semester progresses. Organization can especially be a hassle when all that is needed is located on several different platforms; for example, a calendar application may be used as a planner to keep track of due dates, while a separate budgeting application may be used to track spendings along with a separate notes application for writing to-do lists and grocery lists. To help diminish the need of going back-and-forth and opening various applications at once, we want to implement Planify as an all encompassing software that includes a daily/weekly/monthly calendar, planner, to-do list section, grocery list section, and a budget tracker. We believe that this convenient and extremely useful tool will help students efficiently manage their schedules and needs as all of this data will be available to them within one comprehensive platform. In addition to these features, the software will have an alert that will notify the user through notifications or email about their reminders or any other important events like an upcoming due date, special event, or overspendings.

### For Whom?
 This software is targeted towards college students, but can also be used by anyone  interested in utilizing an all-encompassing platform that will help them become more organized in terms of planning and keeping track of various things.

### How?
Each user would create an account so that all their information and data can be stored into their personal account which can also be accessed on different devices. Once logged in, there are various tabs visible on a main page, each with a heading such as “Calendar”, “To-do list”, “Grocery list”, and “Spendings”. Each tab would open up the respective page where the user can input their necessary information. The calendar feature would allow users to create events which they can add to their calendar along with the ability to create several separate calendars within this broad calendar feature in order for the user to be able to differentiate between various aspects of their lives. The to-do list would allow users to input tasks that they need to complete and organize these  reminders based on time, date, priority, etc. Users can input food into the grocery list feature and label them with special categorizations based on type of food, aisle they are in, etc for additional information they may deem helpful. For the budget tracker, users will be able to break down their spendings into categories in order to visualize where their spendings go and be able to set limit reminders of how much they want to spend in a given period of time. If time allows, we may also include features that allow users to customize the settings of their calendars such as through color, font, design, etc.

### Scope
This project is reasonable as a semester-long project since it requires the need for all aspects of a full-scope software project with the front-end, back-end, and all the planning required for the project process timeline. The software would require the ability to store and differentiate the personal data and information entered in by each user along with having a clean, straightforward, and yet aesthetically pleasing UI that would make it functional and appealing to users. Because of the multitude of tabs and features included in this software, the delegation of roles and work will not be an issue. If we happen to complete all the initial features earlier than expected we can always add more features as the software concept is very flexible and on the other hand if there are too many features than we can handle, we can always remove certain aspects.
